As we discussed previously,
organizations use a variety
of tools, such as SIEMs,
playbooks, and packet
sniffers to better manage,
monitor, and analyze
security threats.
But those aren't the only
tools in an analyst's toolkit.
Analysts also use
programming languages and
operating systems to
accomplish essential tasks.
In this video, we'll
introduce you to Python and
SQL programming, and the
Linux operating system.
All of which you'll have
an opportunity to practice
using later in the
certificate program.
Organizations can use
programming to create
a specific set of instructions
for a computer to execute tasks.
Programming allows analysts to
complete repetitive tasks and
processes with a high degree
of accuracy and efficiency.
It also helps reduce the
risk of human error, and can
save hours or days
compared to performing
the work manually.
Now that you're aware of what
programming languages
are used for,
let's discuss
a specific and related
operating system called
Linux, and two programming
languages: SQL and Python.
Linux is an open-source, or
publicly available,
operating system.
Unlike other operating systems
you may be familiar with,
for example MacOS or Windows,
Linux relies on a command line
as the primary user interface.
Linux itself is not a
programming language,
but it does allow for the use of
text-based commands
between the user
and the operating system.
You'll learn more about
Linux later in the program.
A common use of Linux for
entry-level security analysts is
examining logs to better
understand what's
occurring in a system.
For example, you might
find yourself using
commands to review
an error log when investigating
uncommonly high network traffic.
Next, let's discuss SQL.
SQL stands for Structured
Query Language.
SQL is a programming
language used to create,
interact with, and request
information from a database.
A database is an
organized collection
of information or data.
There may be millions of
data points in a database.
So an entry-level security
analyst would use SQL to
filter through the data points
to retrieve specific
information.
The last programming language
we'll introduce is Python.
Security professionals can use
Python to perform tasks that are
repetitive and
time-consuming and that
require a high level of
detail and accuracy.
As a future analyst,
it's important to
understand that
every organization's
toolkit may be
somewhat different based
on their security needs.
The main point is that
you're familiar with
some industry standard tools
because that will show
employers that you have the
ability to learn how to use
their tools to protect
the organization and
the people it serves.
You're doing great!
Later in the course, you'll learn
more about Linux and
programming languages,
and you'll practice
using these tools in
security-related scenarios.